## Employment Forecast

For this forecast, I obtained the data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. (Both seasonally adjusted  and  not adjusted)
The seasonally adjusted data showed a highly increasing trend and the impact of COVID-19 seemed to eclipse since the total employed(seasonally adjusted) of Jan-21 was close to that of Nov-19. 
The data ranged from 1970 to 2021, so initially, I grouped them by decade and obtained the minimum, maximum, and mean levels of employed people in April, to get some sense of the confidence intervals and their progression by decade.

Using gg_season and gg_subseries I observed a slight increase in April values after 2000 except for 2020, where the total employed value dropped significantly. 

I decided to try to model both the adjusted and the unadjusted data to compare the estimates, and to exploit the seasonality of the latter.

Both the nominal and the differenced values of the time series showcased strong autocorrelation with past values, especially in lag 12.

I decided to experiment by fitting Exponential smoothing models with multiplicative seasonality for the not-adjusted data and with no seasonality for the adjusted data. Furthermore, to exploit the high correlation between the lagged values of the time-series I attempted to fit some Arima models, based on the textbook(although I had trouble choosing the tuning parameters). Finally, for the not adjusted data, I tried to use the prophet model (mostly out of curiosity). For the seasonally adjusted data, the Arima model performed exceptionally well, outperforming the prophet and the ETS methods.

For the adjusted data, after training the models, withholding values between 2013-2018, the measurements of accuracy showed that the Arima model performed better.
Based on that I forecasted the seasonally adjusted estimate of total employment for April 2021 to be 12920109 and the confidence interval
[12818954, 13056068]80.

I am not very confident in my estimate based on the fact that I couldn't think of how to adjust the time-series forecast based on the impact of COVID-19.

The code (not well organized) for this forecast can be found at https://github.com/petestylianos/5550_assignment1
