## Weather Forecast

Initialy I loaded the data about the maximum temperature in R and performed some EDA.
I used gg_season() to identidy any patterns for April. Between 1970 and 2020 
the highest maximum temperature in April was 34.5 and the
lowesr maximum temperature in
April was 11.7.
Furthermore, I plotted the distrubution of the daily maximim temperature for every decade in the dataset, and derived that the mean was around 20 for all 5 decades. The disributions wers normal with a little right skew.
Based on the assumption of normally disributed data for the maximum temperature in Aprli, I calcluated the mean and the appropriate 80% confidence intervals, but they were very narrow, so I decided to use a different approach. I
assumed that within all days in April the values of maximum temperatue are uniformly distributed. As so, for every year in the dataset I calculated the highest maximum temperature in April was and the
lowest maximum temperature in
April. These two distributions were also approximately normal with small skew. Based on that I re-calculated the mean and the 80% confidence intervals for each distribution. Accordingly, I approximated the point forecast as the mean of the mean of the maximum temperatures distribution and the mean of the lowest maximum temperatures.
And for the confidence interval I included the lowest quantile from the lowest temperaturs distribution and the upper quantile from the maximum temperatures distribution.
The point forecast was set to 21.5 degrees and the CI to [14.3 - 29.0]80%.

Moving one I also decided to attempt to fit some exponential smoothing models to take into advantage the seasonality and trend in the data. I used a box_cox transformation in the maximum temperature, to make sure that the prediction intervals would be positive, and then I modeled the maximum temperature using a seasonal naive method a simple exponential smoothing method('A', 'A', 'A), a Damped Holt's method ('A', 'Ad', 'A)
and a compination of all three methods.
After fitting the models in the test set that witheld data from 2014-2020, I measured the accuracy of the models and determined that the Damped Holt's method produced better distributional and point forecast. As so I used only this method to forecast the future values. This model suggested a point forecast of
23.4 and a CI of [13.84853, 37.22497]80.
The point forecasts and the lower CI of my two aproaches 
are close but the upper CI from the ETS model is even higher than the all time maximum temperature in April.
I wasn't aware how I should properly combine these forecasts, so using a little judgement, I concluded in a point forecast of: 22.6
and a confidence interval of
[13.84853 - 30.9]80%.
Code (not well organised) for this forecast can be found at: https://github.com/petestylianos/5550_assignment1
















